The logical software architecture for main control system is as follows:

The Arduinos are considered actors within our management framework. They pass information to the control system via a push strategy, over a reliable protocol. The control system maintains a database of all long-term state in addition to a proxy object representing the state of our Arduinos. We use an interpreter pattern at the input of each logical layer against a whitelist of acceptable commands prior to passing the information into the system. When an acceptable match is found, an abstract factory creates the proper command object that represents incipient changes; it then gets fed into the appropriate subsystem via a chain of responsibility. The web interface and the control system is separated by a granular facade pattern implementing a remote or local service. When individual Arduino systems need monitoring in detail, a memento object can simply be created and sent over a network socket to the web interface system.  When requesting a specific set of attributes, we trigger an iterator that uses a visitor to collect state information. That information is used by a builder to construct the response that will be eventually presented to the end-user.

Note: We would like to emphasize that the web interface is one of many potential interfaces that an operator can use. If required, the system can be trivially updated to allow information to be sent to any alternative consumer. For example, we can easily envision a command-line control applications, inline report-making, backup systems, other layers of a management system, or even AI: The genericity allows to scale!
