Our problem is motivated by two considerations: Food insecurity and climate change-induced drought.

It has become evident that the weather has been getting hotter and dryer as time has progressed: Having lived in the province of Saskatchewan all our lives, the authors can testify to that fact. Therefore, we are forced to adapt to this situation or we will undergo a mass depopulation if we fail to adapt to the changing circumstances. Now that droughts are a common part of life, we need to rise to the challenge of sustaining a growing population with less fresh water than we used to enjoy. This means we must be more clever about how we grow our food: Crops selected for hardiness and direct genetic modifications might not be enough to protect us from starvation if things get really bad. We need to bring on space-age solutions to this problem, as parts of our planet that are currently verdant may very soon resemble a hot version of Mars. Among this is the fact that the technologist elite is getting richer as the poor already begin to starve: This is untenable and if we as a social class don't do something and be seen doing so, we are liable for social repercussions. This is beyond the fact that one who is capable of doing good towards another should do so from principle.

In order to solve as much food insecurity while using as little water as possible, we are going to harness the one good development of current days: Electricity is getting cheaper, especially the renewable variety. Is there a way to turn all this electricity into food so that people don't go hungry? It turns out there is: Using an emerging technology known as fogponics, along with water recapture, to ensure that people can keep themselves and their countries fed during such times.
