These has been prior effort in the direction of automated plant growing facilities: MIT's OpenAg initiative has been refining through several iterations of their open-source personal food computer, which is currently at version 3. On the other side of the Atlantic we have Becker, Caddell, and Gutierrez from the University of Liverpool: They have created a functional fogponics system for growing vegetable greens which they call the "Integrated Farming System."

However, the systems above lack integration across a network of such machines, which is necessary to meet the needs of even a single urban family: Space constraints make it very difficult for city-dwellers to dedicate room to crop production. We propose software that allows the user to coordinate the schedules of multiple fogponics system, spread out across the home, in order to fulfill the need for fresh greens year-round. Fogponics was chosen due to its low water consumption, its hygenic nature, and due to the small roots established by fogponics-grown plants its low use of space. The water consumption issue is likely the most important - the world is heading towards an electricity-cheap and freshwater-scarce economy and fogponics combined with water recapture represents a system optimized to be extremely water-efficient. This is grounds for such technology to be used on a wider scale, possibly replacing other forms of horticulture in certain markets as producers are forced to use less and less water: Our system will allow them to do so. As another related benefit, with fogponics nutrient use is reduced greatly, even over that of regular high-pressure aeroponics. This will enable cost savings for nutrients.

Among other benefits, shared by all enclosed grow-rooms, is the ability to create a specific environment to favour certain aspects of plant growth: This allow for greater repeatability and makes quality control much easier. In a crowded marketplace, a brand can benefit greatly from such advantages. However, fogponics takes this to another level - changes in the plants become apparent very soon after changes in nutrients. This can allow a horticulturalist to tweak parameters to force certain traits in a plant far more readily and with far less water than when she relied upon a substrate containing plenty of nutrients left over from previous feeds.

We believe such a system to be almost ready for prime-time, and propose that once a workable open-sourced version is refined it will find immediate use in both industry and in the home.
